SUMO-255292 | Apoorv | Add. Azure VM App Doc and Images (#5288)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-virtual-machine.md

The Sumo Logic app for Azure Virtual Machine allows you to collect your VM instance metrics and display them using predefined dashboards. The app provides dashboards to display analysis of VM instance metrics for CPU, disk, network, cache, and memory. Also, it provides detailed insights into all audit events associated with VM instances and specifically helps identify changes, errors, and user activities.

## Log and metric types

For Azure Virtual Machine, you can collect the following logs and metrics:

* **Activity logs**. To learn more about the different Activity log category types and schemas collected for Azure Virtual Machine, refer to [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/monitor-vm-reference#activity-log).

> * **Virtual Machine Metrics**. These metrics are available in [Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/monitor-vm-reference#metrics) namespace.

Reviewer: virtualscaleset namespace also we should put

For more information on supported metrics and their units, refer to the [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/monitor-vm-reference#supported-metrics-for-microsoftcomputevirtualmachines).

## Setup

Azure service sends monitoring data to Azure Monitor, which can then [stream data to Eventhub](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/stream-monitoring-data-event-hubs). Sumo Logic supports:

* Logs collection from [Azure Monitor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/monitoring-and-diagnostics/monitoring-get-started) using our [Azure Event Hubs source](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/ms-azure-event-hubs-source/).

> * Metrics collection using our [HTTP Logs and Metrics source](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/) via Azure Functions deployed using the ARM template.

Reviewer: This should be same as old Azure Key Vault app where we added the beta metrics source description

You must explicitly enable diagnostic settings for each Virtual Machine you want to monitor. You can forward logs to the same event hub provided they satisfy the limitations and permissions as described [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings?tabs=portal#destination-limitations).

When you configure the event hubs source or HTTP source, plan your source category to ease the querying process. A hierarchical approach allows you to make use of wildcards. For example: `Azure/VM/ActivityLogs`, `Azure/VM/Metrics`.

### Configure metric rules

* **Azure Observability Metadata Extraction VMName**

>   In case this rule already exists, then no need to create it again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If this rule already exists, no need to create it again.
```

```sql
Rule Name: AzureObservabilityMetadataExtractionVMName
```

```sql title="Metric match expression"
tenant_name=* namespace=Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines resource_name=*
```

> | Fields extracted | Metric rule    |
> |------------------|----------------|
> | vmname  | $resource_name._1 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

| Fields extracted | Metric rule    |
|:------------------|:----------------|
| `vmname`  | `$resource_name._1` |
```

### Configure metrics collection

:::note

> Sumo Logic Metrics source is currently in Beta, to participate, contact your Sumo Logic account executive.

Reviewer 2: Is this specific to Azure VM app metrics collection?

Author: Yes!!

Reviewer 2: I'd edit it to read something like `The Sumo Logic metrics source for Azure Virtual Machine is currently in Beta. To participate, contact your Sumo Logic account executive.`

Reviewer 3: @kimsauce This is a generic statement for Azure apps with metric collection. So, I will just modify your sentence as `The Sumo Logic metrics source for Azure is currently in Beta. To participate, contact your Sumo Logic account executive.`

   1. Choose `Stream to an event hub` as the destination.
   1. Select `allLogs`.
   1. Use the Event Hub namespace and Event Hub name configured in the previous step in the destination details section. You can use the default policy `RootManageSharedAccessKey` as the policy name.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/azure-eventgrid-logs.png')} alt="Azure Event Grid logs" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
1. Tag the location field in the source with the right location value. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/Azure-Storage-Tag-Location.png')} alt="Azure Virtual Machine Tag Location" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400" />

#### Activity Logs

To collect activity logs, refer to the [Collecting Logs for the Azure Audit App from Event Hub](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/audit) section in the Azure Audit documentation. Do not perform this step in case you are already collecting activity logs for a subscription.
:::note
Since this source contains logs from multiple regions, make sure that you do not tag this source with the location tag.
:::

## Installing the Azure Virtual Machine app

> Now that you have set up data collection, install the Azure Virtual Machine Sumo Logic app to use the pre-configured [dashboards](#viewing-the-azure-key-vault-dashboards) that provide visibility into your environment for real-time analysis of overall usage.

Reviewer 2: Anchor link should reference _Azure Virtual Machine_ dashboards

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Overview.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Overview dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

### OS/Disk

**Azure VM  - OS/Disk** dashboard provides details on the operational activities and status of your Azure VM OS and Data disks

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Operations-Overview.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault  - Operations Overview dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

### Network

**Azure VM - Network** dashboard provides detailed information about VM network activities based on incoming and outgoing packets and bytes.
<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Operations-Detailed.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Operations Detailed dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

### Disk

> **Azure VM - Disk** dashboard provides details on the operational activities and status of your Azure VM disks and premium disks.
> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Errors-and-Failures.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Errors and Failures dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Azure VM - Disk** dashboard provides details on the operational activities and status of your Azure VM disks and premium disks.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Errors-and-Failures.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Errors and Failures dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
```

### Administrative Operations

> **Azure VM - Administrative Operations** dashboard provides details on the operational activities and status of your Azure Virtual Machine resources Use this dashboard to monitor the distribution of operation types and their success rates to ensure proper functioning of your Virtual Machine. Identify potential issues by analyzing the top operations causing errors and correlating them with specific users or applications. Track recent write and delete operations to maintain an audit trail of changes made to your Virtual Machine.
> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Administrative-Operations.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Administrative Operations dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Azure VM - Administrative Operations** dashboard provides details on the operational activities and status of your Azure Virtual Machine resources. Use this dashboard to:
* Monitor the distribution of operation types and their success rates to ensure proper functioning of your Virtual Machine.
* Identify potential issues by analyzing the top operations causing errors and correlating them with specific users or applications.
* Track recent write and delete operations to maintain an audit trail of changes made to your Virtual Machine.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Administrative-Operations.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Administrative Operations dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
```

### Policy and Recommendations

> **Azure Virtual Machine - Policy and Recommendations** dashboard provides details on policy events and recommendations for your Azure Virtual Machine resources. Use this dashboard to monitor the success and failure rates of policy events to ensure proper configuration and compliance. Track and analyse recent recommendations to improve the performance and security of your Vaults setup. Identify trends in policy events and recommendations over time to proactively address potential issues.
> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Policy-and-Recommendations.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Policy and Recommendations dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Azure Virtual Machine - Policy and Recommendations** dashboard provides details on policy events and recommendations for your Azure Virtual Machine resources. Use this dashboard to:
* Monitor the success and failure rates of policy events to ensure proper configuration and compliance. 
* Track and analyse recent recommendations to improve the performance and security of your Vaults setup.
* Identify trends in policy events and recommendations over time to proactively address potential issues.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Policy-and-Recommendations.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Policy and Recommendations dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
```

### CPU

> **Azure VM - CPU** dashboard provides details on the CPU metrics and usage of your Azure VM CPU.
> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Vault-Health.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Vault Health dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
> 
> ### Cache
> 
> **Azure VM - Cache** dashboard provides details on the status and usage of your Azure VM cache resources
> <img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Compliance.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Compliance dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Azure VM - CPU** dashboard provides details on the CPU metrics and usage of your Azure VM CPU.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Vault-Health.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Vault Health dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

### Cache

The **Azure VM - Cache** dashboard provides details on the status and usage of your Azure VM cache resources.

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Compliance.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Compliance dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />
```

### Temp Disk

> **Azure VM - Temp Disk** dashboard provides details on the operational activities and status of your Azure VM Temp Disk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The**Azure VM - Temp Disk** dashboard provides details on the operational activities and status of your Azure VM Temp Disk.
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/AzureKeyVaults/Azure-Key-Vaults-Compliance.png')} alt="Azure Key Vault - Compliance dashboard" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800" />

## Create monitors for Azure Virtual Machine app

import CreateMonitors from '../../reuse/apps/create-monitors.md';

<CreateMonitors/>

## Troubleshooting

### HTTP Logs and Metrics Source used by Azure Functions

> To troubleshoot metrics collection, follow the instructions in [Collect Metrics from Azure Monitor > Troubleshooting metrics collection](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/#troubleshooting-metrics-collection).

Reviewer: we need to remove this, it's for old metrics source

You must explicitly enable diagnostic settings for each Virtual Machine you want to monitor. You can forward logs to the same event hub provided they satisfy the limitations and permissions as described [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings?tabs=portal#destination-limitations).

When you configure the event hubs source or HTTP source, plan your source category to ease the querying process. A hierarchical approach allows you to make use of wildcards. For example: `Azure/VM/ActivityLogs`, `Azure/VM/Metrics`.

### Configure metric rules

* **Azure Observability Metadata Extraction VMName**

  In case this rule already exists, then no need to create it again.

```sql
Rule Name: AzureObservabilityMetadataExtractionVMName
```

```sql title="Metric match expression"
tenant_name=* namespace=Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines resource_name=*
```

| Fields extracted | Metric rule    |
|:--|:--|
| `vmname`  | `$resource_name._1` |

### Configure metrics collection

:::note

> Sumo Logic Metrics source is currently in Beta, to participate, contact your Sumo Logic account executive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Sumo Logic metrics source for Azure is currently in Beta. To participate, contact your Sumo Logic account executive.
```
